I checked up on my information, and the first thing I did was try to invent planets for
these stars.
That meant I had to figure out the mass so I'd know how far away the planets would, whether
it's the mass and the radiation output, so I'd have to know how far away the planets
and what length of year they'd have, all these little things that make the Department of
Science fiction writing.
These damn plots are in this.
Well, I came up with values from the spectroscopic evidence, and the blasted white stars weren't
big enough.
They weren't massive enough.
And to be as bright as they were, they should have had more mass than they possibly could
have from the spectroscopic data.
And I began scratching my head furiously.
Suddenly I had a brilliant notion, hey, maybe they aren't equal in each of the two systems.
Maybe this is what I'm talking about.
But I'm talking about what the astronomers call the single line binary.
That is, one with one star much brighter than the other, and we get only one set of spectral
lines, and we don't know anything really about the other star at all.
So living, fortunately, in the same metropolis, it's certainly an astrophysicist.
I called up and got a Xerox made of the original paper on the Caster system, which was done
in 1906, and published in the Lick Observatory Bulletin.
And that came with single line velocity curves.
So I had to go and figure out what the stars were really like.
And the next slide I hope, if I didn't get out of order again, gives you a pretty good
idea.
The yellow star in the middle is the sun.
These two are the main components of the other two bright stars in the Caster, and the red
war, this and this, are reasonable values for the other stars.
There are limitations, but this is not a quick thing so it's not air-johns.
We don't know the exact tilt so there's a big range of possible masses that I stuck
within the range which would make the stars too faint to see, and came out with answers
I can't say are right, but are at least reasonable.
The other system, the YY Genonarum Debout Right, this is the pond.
And everything else, there's a couple of other warrants which you wouldn't be able to see from here, which I stuck into the system for purposes of the talk.
This is another of the Star Trek ones.
Okay, finally go.
It's a beautiful system with lots of planets.
I say there are lots of planets.
A lot of science fiction writers, this is not my painting by the way, this is a John Fickson one.
A lot of science fiction writers when they set their stories on planets of other stars just pick the star who named it half as a null,
without any regard to how likely it was to have planets much less habitable once.
And Antares is a frequently used example, since it's a nice bright star seen from Earth or from practically anywhere else.
And there you are.
But there's a little bit of trouble with Antares.
This is probably a pretty accurate painting.
It's a red giant, you can see down through the atmosphere for some distance, but not as far as Paul Anderson once said in one of his stories.
And I'm a little givious about any layer of the atmosphere looking at that, but it might.
I have never been there, can't absolutely guarantee.
But it is a super giant red type, it's in the very late in its career.
If it ever had any habitable Earth type planets, the star has now expanded to engulf us.
And where this world came from, the fiction hooked up, I really don't know.
Antares was mentioned in Star Trek though, and I had to hook up a few possibilities to play the game, and I'm quite sure the next two or three slides deal with some of the possibilities.
I had to basically presume facts that the star is very old, that planets are very old, so I had to hook up a place where they're quite reasonably common.
And I went slightly overboard in typical science fiction writer style.
This is a call going into Antares' photo studio itself.
It's going in well above the local speed of sound, all three of them are, so there are shock waves around it.
The title of the picture was Hot Vacuum, which pretty well describes the outer parts of Antares.
And Paul is going down inside.
Actually, my lifeform had existed on planets now and don't.
At least at the technological level where they could transfer their intelligences, or at least copy themselves adequately into machines of a sort, solid-state devices of many, many cells,
we saw them in something well beyond our present chip technique, but that's the basic idea.
So they were relatively immune to such things as quite wide temperature changes.
They fed on energy directly, and they lived commonly inside the star itself.
So they occasionally had to go out to some of the surviving planets to get material.
Because in a vacuum like that, you don't pick up very much food, and even if you do live off energy,
you can't live in the energy environment at the same temperature as that environment.
You need to eat things somewhere, so they had to leave the star occasionally.
So I made this up for a talk. This is one of these slides that went with it, but I still agree with much the same.
I claim that this was one of those times when the lights had been dimmed, and don't worry about it.
This is an anteroid partly equipped behind one of the surviving building plants.
And there's a big strong, stellar wind coming out from a red giant.
Maybe it'll work. I don't count on it.
It's a little bit better.
This is one of the satellites, and on the satellites, the anteroids had some of their technical equipment,
which they couldn't very well build at the start.
I went and came up with a very brief story about the, you know, the good old Galileo that was always being wrecked by the cattle crafts.
It had to be the Galileo. It went poking around the inner planets and into the star itself.
Okay, then that's one of the natives, and he was very helpful after they got everything settled.
I couldn't find the other slide with that rather of you. That was a native floating around in space.
He had actually was a, just a kid, made an error in judgment without their practically starving.
He got in the enterprise his way, and the enterprise wanted to get around him,
and he wouldn't move and finally required a favor out of him, and got the answer as soon as they needed that.
This was gone through very briefly, I assure you, in the start.
Okay, let's see.
But that said, it sent friendly relations.
Some of the natives and the enterprise went on into the star.
One of the natives protecting the enterprise from slightly excessive radiation intensities,
and eventually found and rescued the crew of the Galileo, and rescued the Galileo.
It's gotta be destroyed if one of the rules.
Okay, that's the final picture I think was the destruction of the cattle crafts.
There's one in a nice negative explosion as the shields went,
and it absorbed a large amount of heat from the gas around it,
and it went for the gas cooled down and stopped radiating,
and it still thinks you get a negative explosion like that under the circumstances.
And if you don't think I'm right, write your own story on that.
Okay.
This was another step I made, so I kind of hope to get into the animated Star Trek stuff,
but it didn't work.
The star is SS Sidney, which is a binary one much like the sun,
the other just above the white dwarf stage.
And every now and then, as material is ejected from the bigger sun,
it falls into the white dwarf, and the heat generated by the fall,
is compressive, makes the small power pop up like it's practically an ova.
The details, the Walter Wadstrom, a two-part article by George Mumford entitled
The Dwarf Novid, the original on-site, appeared in early 1963 with the giant telescope,
and that was the part of it.
The next picture shows it's blazing in this little novice-sized behavior,
and the next picture shows the planet that hooked up to the storm.
It's here in the clean water world, practically solid water,
water for about 2,000 miles, and I worked out an excuse for that,
but let's not go into it now.
It's all the 50s.
One of them, carbon-side life, has developed.
The other, the sea, had a lot of dissolved ionic material, dissolved salt,
and the life forms were metal-cryptoloids, electrical stuff,
and the life on the carbon world, as the just-diamond developed space travel,
had dropped a few poles over onto the other world, not properly decontaminated,
and the metal beings were having to set up a major industry in what they thought of as the flying control center,
destroying the stuff that was spreading over their oceans and cutting off the sunlight they needed.
Okay, the story has never been finished.
I'm very ready.
That's from the surface of one of the planets, looking at the other,
during a partial eclipse.
The shadow of the world you're on is falling on the planet you're looking at.
That's the ready story.
Okay, the next one is pretty much the same source, but the tunnel in the other direction is just coming out from behind.
But most of the planets you're on is now in sunlight, so we see this reflected in the ocean, so it's up here.
Okay.
That was another one that never went very far.
The system is D444-Signal, an ecliptic system of which one part is at W7,
the other is about an old three or four,
two of the hottest objects that shine.
Probably extremely young stars.
I had to cook up an excuse for planets there, and I couldn't think of any.
And finally I decided, planets no, comets yes,
and the comet that was found had been visited a few thousand years before,
because after all, any objects like that would be interesting to a safe traveling race.
And the comet had been hauled out in a lot of research and equipment last minute,
and that's mainly looking inside the comet, which as Fred Ripple says, is a sense of ice.
Now it's a set of hollowed out, and the comet is lying there,
and it's very high to make out any details, but that's reasonable because if you're there, you wouldn't have trouble making out details.
You're inside ice, eliminated from outside, hence the greenest color,
and there are tunnels and tables and kitchen machinery.
I called it labyrinth, so let's go grab.
I haven't seen any bodies.
Okay, next one.
That was when I was cooking around the vicinity of Rydall,
and a ship was doing some mining on a fairly solid metal asteroid
which had condensed way in fairly close to the star.
Rydall's about 150,000 times as bright as the sun,
and it's like 50,000 or so, we don't know how far away it is.
And that star in, if anything, condensed the tall, it would be metal.
So the assumption was that you'd give your mining in the neighborhood
where Rydall's prominent could get at you if you weren't careful.
Okay.
I think you could make a lot of stories about the life of those miners,
never mind going any further.
That was another one I did for the episode, The Apple,
the one where that leftover computer that looked like a reptile
was keeping people going and defending itself.
Well, there obviously had to be another climate system
which had another such device on it,
but there's no reason for all being there.
So this is a satellite of a Jolyon-type planet further out in the distance.
The star is about life-serious, so it had to be a visual further out.
The Jolyon planet had to be hot enough to keep the satellite habitable,
and this is a satellite partly lightened by the star
and partly lightened by the tall red hot planet down to the lower right.
And there's a few thousand more,
a million more square miles to write stories on.
Am I anywhere near infinity yet?
Keep going.
That's from surface to one of the satellites
looking at the tall red hot planet, partly illuminated by
the star down a triangle there.
Okay.
I don't see somebody near the end.
Don't gotta talk to her, anyway.
Oh, yeah, that's gotta be modern.
The mass pertains to dinner.
What's over in the middle of that hall there?
Black hole.
Getting close to a red dwarf star,
close enough for tidal forces to go into action,
material being pulled out of the star,
falling into the black hole as it falls
potential energy showing up its kinetic,
so it's radiating X-rays and anything else you care to name.
I don't know if the black hole is actually going to hit the star
and clean it all up or not,
but I painted the picture a little too oily.
But black holes are showing up in stories
and there are lots of things that can be done with them
that haven't been done yet,
especially as Hawkins Fellows just decided
they're not that permanent.
They can lose their mass by tunneling effects.
It's the laws of quantum mechanics that are true.
Not very effectively.
It doesn't lend itself to verbal explanation.
The reason the black hole supposedly couldn't let anything out
was that the velocity of the gate is greater than the speed of light
and even protons can't make it.
Quantum mechanics is a statistical field
at trie.
What's the whole reason for that?
Yeah, that's what I'm trying to get at least with my way up to here.
A radioactive material, a beta ray of matter that
kicked out electrons, theoretically should.
The electrons are inside, or part-op, neutrons
which are inside the nucleus which is positively charged.
And the attractive field that that electron
would have to go out against is more than it should be able to pass.
But quantum mechanics says you don't have a continuous state of affairs.
This energy state is possible, this energy state is possible,
this energy state is possible.
Most people are familiar with this in the electron arrangement of atoms
that they had in high-field chemistry of the light.
Well, the same sort of thing apparently applies inside the nuclei,
though I know a hell of a lot less about the energy levels
that they're supposed to be there.
But whether or not something will actually get through that potential barrier
is a statistical matter.
And it's heavy and badly designed nuclei, uranium and radium and materials like that,
that sort of stuff.
There is a possibility that a particle will find itself outside the nucleus
without having actually claimed the potential wall.
And they call this phenomenon tunneling.
And theoretically, if the quantum rules apply, they will also apply the black hole.
And apparently, according to an article in I think last month's Scientific American,
these disposals of the micro-black holes, once and for all,
if they were formed 10 billion years ago as a big bang at the start of the universe,
they're radiated away by now.
But the probability gets very much smaller as the black hole gets more and more massive.
And a free-solar mass black hole supposedly would take something like 10 to the
66th power years to radiate away.
So it's a fairly permanent object.
However, if you want to find some way in your story of making use of quantum effects,
and God knows that's just another of the things that we've been using for fact,
that light travels for years, maybe you can hop in and out now.
Go ahead, you like the story.
Well, whether or not the universe is all going to wind up in black holes,
it still seems pretty probable that the black holes will then continue spreading apart indefinitely.
And gradually, and I do mean gradually,
radiate their contents away again, and what you have after that I don't know.
I'll let her to hawk and see.
Okay.
Some stories, I'm not sure I put that in upside down, I don't look like it.
Some paintings tell their own stories.
We don't have to write a story around it, but you can.
This one was entitled Sub-Satellite, and it's upside down from the way I had it in mind when I painted it.
And there's a wrecked ship on full bus up there, and Mars is in the background,
and it's like the wrecked man in the foreground.
The whole thing tells its own story.
Some of the later ones are a bit better when it's hopped onto them.
Especially in the story they tell.
Sometimes it's rubbish.
I call that one communication gap.
One take a lot of the audience, doesn't it?
They just happened to be an Afro-Pod, and figured that there was some fair chance of communicating,
as the highest life you could find, which is also an Afro-Pod.
The fact that he arrived somewhere in the middle of Tambourine, and they all cried.
Anyone want to write that story, go right ahead.
That doesn't project very well.
The title was, Almond.
It's supposed to be Sunrise Sky, Reflection and Water down there,
and a moon hanging just between two other suns in the system.
The painting looks a lot better in this slide.
Let's go on.
Again, it doesn't go very well.
I have it which I suspect is bad artistically.
A painting, a picture in which the key element can't be seen until you lean over and look rather closely.
This one was called Seconds Can.
And the planet is the Earth, and down here in the rock is a fossil human storm.
Sorry, it doesn't show better.
Let's see if the next one does, in all its hope.
That isn't a story, but curses.
It's meant to be a scientifically-prolegged illustration of a T-towry star.
A star just at the point in the contraction of the original nebula, where the hydrogen-fusing fire had lighted.
And there's still a lot of gas and dust which hasn't fallen into the sun.
A wildly irregular object, partly we think because the actual radiation output is still varying wildly,
and partly because there's a lot of the obscuring matter still around it with occasionally blocked off the radiation.
You shouldn't be able to write a story about a star there.
But you should be able to write a story about it.
Okay, that came out of my Rigel talk for Star Trek.
This is a Rigel B off the background, but I think it was about Rigel 14 looking at it.
Okay, I'll describe Rigel 14 if you want. Just write me a note.
I'll tell you how far, I think I can find my notes on how far out it was, and how many centuries it was, and all that sort of stuff.
Okay, another not quite sun-lit world situation, but it's the planet of a red dwarf star which has evaporated out of the galaxy.
And thus, dynamic encounters, you tend to distribute kinetic energy equally among stars just as you do among molecules in a gas cloud.
And there's a good deal of theoretical reason to suspect that there are a lot of low-mass stars and low-mass objects in the space between the galaxies.
Whether there's enough to bring the universe back together again, nobody's sure.
At the moment, all we know is all the stuff we know isn't enough, and it's expanding for good.
Okay.
I didn't change this one, and I never tried to write a story about it.
The star is the binary system you set it.
And one star is a blue main-shape one giant, and the other is an F-yellow, so much hotter than the sun.
Not quite super-giant about luminosity class two, and presumably, judging by the fact that some of these data are close enough together to be carrying math out of each other,
and what that would do to any planet they may have, enjoy yourself. I'm not gonna bother with it.
Okay.
Data-lyrate has been used repeatedly. That's the sixth and the ninth time.
And if anyone has read Larry Hibben's soft weapon, they've gotten the verbal description.
Actually, he went by Bonifacelle's painting, but it doesn't matter the paintings or the lights.
The only fact here is that the brighter of those stars is a D-type main-shape star about three times the pop of the sun.
The other object we don't know has been products to be an F-type star.
I've read the one paper in which they thought it might be a black hole.
This is, of course, that the black hole is that popular.
And the special evidence suggests that you've got this spiral of gas being ejected from one star,
pulled towards the other, but all of the motion is so fast that some of it misses and goes spiraling merrily out of the system.
The fling shot affects the same thing that's ascending the Pioneer 10 out of the solar system.
The only catch in the picture is you couldn't begin to look in that direction,
with a star of that temperature in front of you, and you would never see that red hydrogen spiral.
No way. It's not bright enough.
However, it's a nice painting and it made a nice story.
Next one.
The name's gonna keep on over.
The blue-white star is the one that's exploded and now is shrinking rapidly down to the white dwarf or neutron star,
or a black hole, depending on what its mass is, as it's specified.
Part of the binary system, the other star is the red giant.
We'll go the same way in another 30 years or so.
The kind of foreground that got well posted during the explosion.
Next.
Yep.
Probably not.
Oh, it won't matter, away from it, but not all of it.
The next algal, the human star, the flinger, is the victim's painting.
More or less correct, a little bit more of a blurb, you can't live it, was, if you had the dimensions way off.
The star we see is a very significant speed.
The star that does the acoustic, the quicksand, is a k-type for a sub-giant, and is a third star in the distance.
Somewhere out about the distance of Jupiter.
And I did a little bit of thinking about a planet for that system one time, and you can have this one free,
and I'll describe the planet for you.
The next picture is a scene on it.
Because of the third star, I had to put it a little too far out to be kept at a comfortable temperature by algal if it looked like that.
If it had been far enough in, the third star would have ruined its orbit, but probably.
So I decided, okay, let's spread greenhouses up to a decent temperature.
So it's got a nice hollow cloud envelope like seen here, and its natives are just getting to the stage where they are being plantists,
and this group has gotten above the cloud layer.
The first picture is a completely unused sunlight, and algal A is partly an eclipse, and they're in trouble if it comes out from the eclipse before very long.
The next star is there, and the other one is hidden behind the accumulus top,
because unlike Chesley Bonestell and some other artists who can call themselves artists,
I let my scientific prejudice affect my artistic life.
I don't paint a picture of what you're looking straight at at these types of stars.
You know, damn well you couldn't see it, you couldn't see anything else.
So I hid the blue star behind this companion, and I hid the other star,
who's type I don't know but which I'm sure is too hot to look at straight, behind the clouds.
That's me. I mean, with artistic license, you can do these things.
I'm a scientist, not an artist. Sorry about that.
Okay, but if you want that planet, go right ahead.
Also, what are the things you can do with it?
People look a little like tentacles.
They evolved in shallow oceans in tidal regions with very heavy weed beds,
and the centipede structure involved climbing and moving around,
but tides went up and down, and they were sometimes in the air, sometimes not,
and the general rugged environment was what selected for intelligence there.
I used the same thing in the Teller 2 story, Stuck With It, but it was a different planet.
And that, I think the last of the slides,
remember when Glace decided that Mr. Stuck's homeworld Vulcan was a planet of 40 aerodinies?
Well, I went along with this. I mean, I'm stuck with it.
And it's in the period in books. 40 aerodinies is a triple star.
The main body of the system is about at K3, about 30% as bright as the sun,
and I decided that that's where Vulcan had better defects, certainly, closer in,
because Vulcan has been stated to be hotter than the Earth,
and therefore it has a shorter year whether Jim was willing to admit it or not.
The other two stars are rather interesting there, but brighter one is a white dwarf.